You should have already done some of the basics with
Compose and you know your way around that command line
tool. But, there's some things I want to make sure that
we've got down and specifically in
the file itself, the Compose YAML, before we jump into
specifics around your environment.
Throughout this course, you've learned proper
Node Dockerfiles, proper project
setup and a few other things like Compose basics.
Now what we're getting into is your day-to-day development
setup in Compose YAML.
For this, you're going to go into the compose tips
directory, and there's a good and bad file there.
I'm not going to read line for line the help I put in
there, but I want to jump around a little bit and show you
some big ticket items that I see a lot with
people getting confused.
This includes my clients, my students in other courses.
This includes blogs on the Internet that get it wrong, or
at least not as good as it could be for your local setup.
I want you to have the best setup.
Let's get to some of those specifics.
Obviously here, we're using Docker Compose for local dev.
That's the ideal setup for Docker Compose.
It was meant for local development workflow.
When I say developer, I mean anyone who needs to run
containers to do things. You might just be Web
Admin that's not really doing a lot of development, but you
need to run some Node apps, and maybe
do some stuff and sample test stuff.
Or maybe you're a DBA and you need the Node frontend and
you're going to be doing the backend DBA stuff.
Whatever. It just really means you're running Compose.
The interesting thing here is that the industry, and even
Docker in some of its documentation, has gotten a little
confused around the versions of our Compose file.
That's the first line in your Compose file defines the
version. There's three versions, 1, 2 and 3 and we
started out back in the day when Compose was created with
Version 1 and there really wasn't any version listed.
Then we got eventually to Version 2, and that gave us cool
things like networks and volumes, and stuff like that.
And then Version 3 came out a few years ago that was really
about clustering and orchestration.
I think some of us have gotten confused around what Version
2 and Version 3 are and why they're different.
Just to be clear here, Version 2 is not
outdated. It has not been replaced by Version 3.
Think of it as almost like a fork in the road where
Version 2 is really optimized for Docker Compose
command line local use on your machine.
Version 3 is good for compatibility
between local Docker Compose and something like Swarm
or Kubernetes. If you're not using these files with
specifically an orchestrator, then there's really
no advantage to Version 3.
Version 3 has stuff in it around deployments, and
high availability, and rolling updates, and stuff
like that. But, all those features that you would need for
local Docker Compose use are in Version 2.
In fact, Version 2 has a few features that we don't get in
Version 3 because they didn't make sense or didn't work
well in a multi-server cluster environment.
I'm working with the Docker team now to help improve that
documentation, but there's lots of places to figure out,
and how to say it, and what to say.
So, that's not quite up to date.
You're getting this before the documentation is even
updated. My recommendation: stick with Version 2 if
you're focused on local Docker Compose environments.
If you're not yet using Swarm or Kubernetes  and you're not
using Compose files or Stack files
in those scenarios, then the only version you should be
using is Version 2. There's no benefit to Version 3 for
that. If we look over here on the Docker website, you see
that they've broken out the documentation into the
different the versions.
Version 3 tends to be the default.
It's the one I go to all the time.
But, when I'm focused exclusively on local development,
and I don't intend for that Compose file to ever be used
for Swarm or some production setup, then I will just click
on the Version 2.
That way, I am focused on the features that I just need
locally. I don't get to see the deploy features there
because those are really about Version 3.
Then I get a couple of things there that are exclusive to
Version 2, including the depends on, which a lot of people
on the Internet complain about, saying that depends on
isn't in Version 3 and they really wish it was there, and
it was very handy.
Well, it doesn't really make sense to have depends on in
a multi-server cluster setup because things
running on one machine can't necessarily, or easily,
depend on something on a different server,
right. In distributed computing, really the problem with
your app, that we'll talk about later in this section, is
that your app needs to be able to do retries and expect
outages of other things it has to talk to.
Any time you have two parts of an application running
separately, they need to have something to do when the
connection fails. Either they retry, or they just crash
and let Docker handle it.
Anyway, we'll get to all that later.
The cool thing is in Version 2, we get some features with
depends on that we don't get in Version 3.
There's other features in Version 2 as well.
You can control more hardware.
You can do devices and things in the YAML file
that you can't do in Version 3 because they just don't work
in Swarm or Kubernetes the way that you wish they would.
They're just in Version 2 for now.
This is why I stick with Version 2 when I'm just focusing
on local stuff.
Of course, if you can't tell, I may sound like I know a lot
about the Compose file and the Compose command line, but
really, that's me using it every day and studying
these pages. The Compose file page.
The Compose command line page, and I've referenced those
here as well.
There's a lot to it.
I live there every day.
If you're going to be using Compose as your main way to do
Docker base development, then I expect that you would have
those on your browser most days as well.
Even after years of use, I still reference them constantly.
If you jump into those files in the Compose tips area,
you'll see the good and the bad YAML.
In that directory, I'm in the good file right
now. I'm not necessarily going to read all these to you
because I encourage you to go through these and study these
yourselves. I'm marking in this particular good
YAML what's good about it.
It's sticking to the 2 version.
It's using depends on, which is good
in Version 2. We'll talk a little bit later about how you
can actually use healthchecks to get more out of your
depends on. As we scroll down, there's a couple of other
things good for using named volumes.
Named volumes will mean that your databases will stick
around after you do a docker compose down for the day, and
maybe go home after you've cleaned up.
Those named volumes will stick around as long as you name
them in the Compose file.
There's more don'ts here than we have dos.
I see a lot of things that people shouldn't do, so it's
kind of easier for me to just list those.
In fact, the don'ts file that you can take a look at in
YAML is bigger than the dos.
There's a lot of things I see people do that are Legacy
or just not necessary anymore.
Or, they're maybe setting defaults that they don't need to
set, and that's just an unnecessary step that they've got
to go through.
Two big, unnecessary ones there that I see people using are
aliases and container name.
Now aliases are used to have the service
named as something else.
So, if you called it, in this case my example is, the
service is called myghost and then they made an alias of
ghost. That way the DNS works as ghost
on the network. Just make your service ghost.
Don't necessarily make them separate.
Really, you should name your services what you plan to use
in the DNS for cross container communications
using that friendly name.
Using the alias here, to me, only adds complexity because
now it seems like I'm supposed to use the alias name when
I'm talking to this app from other containers and not the
service name, even though the service name works fine.
I don't know. I just don't recommend using it unless you
really have a good reason and you know why you need that
additional name on the network.
A couple other examples of Legacy features that people
still keep putting in that they don't need are expose and
links. Expose was for taking ports
inside your container and exposing those, or making them
open, on the container network to
other containers. This isn't the same as publishing a port
to outside your machine using the public IP.
This is just inside the container network.
Well, years ago Docker made the change where all
containers on the same network were exposed to all
the other containers. If you wanted to prohibit certain
containers from seeing each other, then you just wouldn't
put them on the same virtual network.
You'd create multiple virtual networks in Docker
and then assign the correct containers to the correct
networks. Once we have that ability, we didn't necessarily
need to control and limit through firewall
settings inside those networks.
If you're using other drivers, there's Weave drivers,
things like that, that are a little more advanced than what
I want to go through this course.
Those kind of network drivers might have extra
functionality in them, but the ones out-of-the-box tend to
work just fine for most people's local development.
You don't need the expose for that because everything's
already exposed inside that network.
The other one there is links.
Links were used a little bit with expose back in the day
where links were how you told two different containers that
they were able to talk to each other, and assigning them
names so they could find each other. Well, that's not
needed anymore because now that we have these custom
networks that Compose creates by default, those
networks assign the service names as DNS entries
for every single service on the network.
We no longer need the links to manually set up connections
because they're already all there.
All ports are open and all of them are in DNS.
Lastly here I will say, let's not
set defaults.
Sometimes that's okay if you've got a good reason.
Maybe there's a default that you sometimes need to change,
so you leave the default in place, and then occasionally
change it to something that's not default.
But, I see a lot of people setting defaults.
So, let's go to the bad YAML file here and I'll just show
you an example.
You'll see that I have some of the examples of the bad
stuff that I've talked about earlier.
You'll scroll down.
You see the bad example of the expose port, which you just
don't need anymore.
Here's a good example is in this particular
YAML file,
I have one database and one web server running the
ghost Node.js app.
Here, I'm setting the network on both of them to the ghost
network. I'm setting that in the webapp, and I'm setting it
in the database as well down here.
Then at the very bottom, I have the ghost network, and it's
using the default driver of bridge.
Well, that's all default.
In fact, out-of-the-box, when you run docker compose up, a
network is automatically created.
It's using the default driver, which is bridge.
That all just happens out-of-the-box.
There's no reason to add that stuff in unless
you need a more advanced setup of networking.
Maybe you need multiple services and different networks
for maybe a frontend network and a backend network.
That makes sense.
I see a lot of people setting up these and even in this
case, showing the driver local for volume
drivers which isn't necessary because that's the default.
I always try to keep my Compose files as simple as
possible. Those defaults are there.
We should trust that they won't be changing any time soon.
I would rather have 50 lines
of a Compose file, with the defaults just assumed,
than 150 lines with all the defaults set.
If you went through an entire Compose config
and set every single thing to default, you would have
hundreds of lines of Compose file that wouldn't mean
anything they wouldn't do anything.